1. WorldBank Dataset Analysis
2. I analyzed a dataset that was provided to me regarding countries and their factors, such as literacy rates and education quality.
3. This project matters because underserved countries may not be represeted in typical data. This dataset combats this by ensuring that regions such as Southern and Eastern Africa are adequately represented. My findings could answer certain questions that people might have about the literacy rate and education factors that affect areas around the world.
4. The variables that I used included the year and the countries/regions of the places that I analyzed as well as the values of the factors that I analyzed, as can be seen in the graphs attached.
5. In this project, I was trying to answer the question "What country had the lowest literacy rate," and "Which one had the highest education factors?" To do so, I ensured to make three charts in order to analyze variables with respect to one another.
6. I found that the data was largely skewed, as can be seen by Figure 1. This meant that the higher the literacy rate (independent variable), the more country-year observations were taken. This inherently means that a more careful and thorough analysis of the data would result in the observation of a greater literacy rate.
7. I believe that my models were fair. I can see figure 3 in particular represents data across both the Arab World as well as the Early-demographic world. The Early-demographic world refers to the human civilization before the vast industrialization that occurred later in history. So, it can be said that the following three variables were taken into consideration: region, literacy rate, and relative time (before and after indistrialization took place). Thus, my models performed fairly.
8. At first, I felt this process to be quite ambiguous. I had many questions that went unanswered initially, the most prominent one being "What must we include in our portfolio?" As time went on, I understood that the primary objective for the project was to analyze how a certain variable influenced another one. With additional time, I would likely further my analysis by perhaps conducting external research about why literacy rate might be as it is in certain countries. By doing so, I would be able to relate these causes to the nations in which they are the most prominent and model the years in which these reasons were the biggest issue. By doing so, I could then research relevant events that occurred throughout those years. In this way, the events that have happened can be accurately related to the literacy rate of the country in question. For instance, if I were to find out that a major catastrophic flood took place in South Africa in 2023, and the literacy rate was also comparatively lower than the other countries in that same year, it would make sense that the flood could have negatively impacted the literacy rate of the country because of the widespread destruction that it caused.
9. The Colab Notebook is attached to this project under the tab labeled "WorldBank.ipynb." No additional files are needed outside of this README document and the Colab Notebook. Running the entire program from start to finish should take no longer than 7 minutes.
10. Bryan was also working on WorldBank with me, although I cannot comment on his progress. As for me, I was the main orchestrator of the project. I worked with an AI assisstant, Google Gemini, to write code in order to produce the graphs that you will see on the notebook. I then interpreted these graphs to reach the conclusion that was stated above. In other words, I used Google Gemini to write the code required to create the visuals representations of the data while I analyzed and constructed a verdict that was based on the trend of the data.
